Comprehensive documentation improvements (#4031)
mathesar-foundation/mathesar: docs/docs/user-guide/roles.md

# PostgreSQL Roles

PostgreSQL uses roles to manage access to data, and each PostgreSQL server has many roles within it.

> ## What is a role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a role?
```

> PostgreSQL role system is elegant and powerful, if albeit somewhat idiosyncratic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL role system is elegant and powerful, albeit somewhat idiosyncratic.
```

> Many permissioning systems utilize the concept of "users" to control access, and PostgreSQL roles work in much the same way. You connect to a PostgreSQL server by supplying your role's name and password. Then your role will dictate your access throughout the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many permission systems utilize the concept of "users" to control access, and PostgreSQL roles work similarly. You connect to a PostgreSQL server by supplying your role's name and password. Then your role will dictate your access throughout the server.
```

Reviewer: Implemented in 02ab36d72.

> Other permissioning systems also commonly have a _separate_ concept of "groups", wherein multiple users can be members of a single group, and permissions can be granted to the group as a whole. Interestingly, PostgreSQL roles can _also_ function as groups! Through [role inheritance](#inheritance), any role can be granted to any other role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other permission systems commonly have a _separate_ concept of "groups", wherein multiple users can be members of a single group. Permissions can be granted to the group as a whole. Interestingly, PostgreSQL roles can _also_ function as groups! Through [role inheritance](#inheritance), the permissions of any role can be granted to any other role.
```

## Roles vis-à-vis databases

In PostgreSQL, roles live within the _server_ and thus are not necessarily specific to individual databases. One role can be configured to access many different databases; and one database can be configured for access via many different roles. Within the Mathesar interface however, the list of roles is presented _inside_ the page. This structure exists for the sake of convenience &mdash; and because PostgreSQL requires that clients connect to a specific database, even to query the roles present on a server. Nonetheless, it is important to understand that when you add/remove PostgreSQL roles (or edit their child roles), your changes will be visible for all databases which share the same server.

## Ownership

Every PostgreSQL object (e.g. a [table](./tables.md), [schema](./schemas.md), etc.) has one and only one role said to be its "owner". By default the owner is set to the role which created the object.

The owner generally can do anything directly to the object, but not necessarily other objects contained within it. For example, a role might own a schema but not have access to certain tables within the schema.

> ## Privileges

Reviewer: Might we need to explain "permissions" vs. "privileges" somewhere?

Author: Sounds good. Can you implement this?

Reviewer: Implemented in 02ab36d72.
